Using the employees table.

Question(a):- Write a query to select all columns and rows from the employees table.

Answer:- SELECT * FROM employees;

Explanation:- This SQL command selects all columns and rows from the employees table.



Question(b):- Write a query to select only the name and salary columns of all employees with a salary greater than 50000.

Answer:- SELECT name, salary FROM employees WHERE salary > 50000;

Explanation:- This SQL command selects only the name and salary columns of all employees with a salary greater than 50000.



Question(c):- Write a query to calculate the average salary of all employees.

Answer:-  SELECT AVG(salary) FROM employees;

Explanation:- This query calculates the average salary of all employees.



Question(d):- Write a query to count the number of employees who work in the "Marketing" department.

Answer:-  SELECT COUNT(*) FROM employees WHERE department_id = (SELECT id FROM departments WHERE name = 'Marketing');

Explanation:- This query counts the number of employees who work in the "Marketing" department.



Question(e):- Write a query to update the salary column of the employee with an id of 1001 to 60000.

Answer:-  UPDATE employees SET salary = 60000 WHERE id = 1001;

Explanation:- This query updates the salary column of the employee with an id of 1001 to 60000.



Question(f):- Write a query to delete all employees whose salary is less than 30000.

Answer:-  DELETE FROM employees WHERE salary < 30000;

Explanation:- This query deletes all employees whose salary is less than 30000.




Using the departments table.

Question(a):- Write a query to select all columns and rows from the departments table.

Answer:- SELECT * FROM departments;

Explanation:- This query selects all columns and rows from the departments table.



Question(b):- Write a query to select only the name and manager columns of the "Finance" department.

Answer:- SELECT name, manager FROM departments WHERE name = 'Finance';

Explanation:- This query selects only the name and manager columns of the "Finance" department.




Question(c):- Write a query to calculate the total number of employees in each department.

Answer:-  SELECT departments.name, COUNT(*) as total_employees FROM employees JOIN departments ON employees.department_id = departments.id GROUP BY departments.name;

Explanation:- This query calculates the total number of employees in each department.




Question(d):- Write a query to insert a new department called "Research" with a manager named "John Doe".

Answer:-  INSERT INTO departments (name, manager) VALUES ('Research', 'John Doe');

Explanation:- This query inserts a new department called "Research" with a manager named "John Doe" into the departments table.



